So we just did our test query,
we saw that that failed.
So let's proceed to the next step.
What we're gonna need in order to
actually give GraphQL, give Apollo some
data to emit, well, we'll have to
create something called a resolver.
And the job of the resolver is
effectively to gather things together,
maybe reads the equivalent of
path params or query params,
or it reads things that are part
of the request coming in.
And then it produces pieces of the data
that are organized into the response.
If you've ever used something like redux,
you can think of these kind of reducers,
where you have these little subparts that
handle a little piece of state, but then
the way everything is organized together,
it's sort of done at a higher level.
So in a reducer, maybe you're just
adding a new number to an array, and
that's one little thing.
But in the bigger picture, this array is
deeply nested into this one little spot.
So we don't have to worry about
creating this payload that
eventually the consumer of the API gets,
we can just worry about dealing
with this one little field.
So let's create our first resolver.
To create our first resolver,
we're going to need to go back
into our ApolloServer TS file.
And because we're gonna end
up using this database now,
we can remove that underscore
that was telling TypeScript
to not worry about the fact that we
were leaving that variable unused.
So let's go ahead and do that first.
So here we go.
We'll go up to the top.
We'll delete that underscore,
now TypeScript's gonna nag us,
we'll take care of that in a moment.
Next, we're gonna insert
this code somewhere before
we create our instance of ApolloServer,
why?
Because we're gonna pass this in
to the ApolloServer constructor.
And this is our first resolver.
And you can see here we have this as
a top level property of this object,
query with a capital Q.
And you may recall that in our schema,
right,
that GQL string with backticks, we also
had a top level thing called query.
It was a type query.
We can go here and look at it, right here.
So the resolver kind of should match one
to one, at least with this query type.
So we've got currentUser and
we've got suggestions.
And currentUser returns a user.
Suggestions returns an array of things,
right?
That's what we see right up here.
So we're creating the equivalent to that,
something that matches up
nicely with our schema.
So let's grab this and let's insert it
right above our ApollServer instantiation.
And then we're going to add this to
the arguments passed into ApolloServer.
It's into this single
configuration object.
We're also going to add this
function here called context.
So I told you that this context object,
this is by the way,
it's kind of an express concept, but it
carries through to ApolloServer as well.
It's just this object that's always
available in any of our resolvers, right?
Any of these little functions, context
is one of the arguments that you get.
So in this case, if we have our database,
this gives us a nice little convenient
handle to grab our database and
it's right where we need it.
Later we're gonna use this for
any cached records that we need to put
someplace where we have things that might
cascade through multiple resolvers.
Where maybe we get a tweet, and
then we have to in a separate
function get the author for a tweet.
Anything that we wanna save,
like some work that can be reused,
we might also store that
on this context object.
Now this can be either an object or
a function that returns an object.
There is a significant
difference between those.
If it's just an object,
that object remains the same for
the life of your application.
And what that means for you is if you're
using this as a temporary scratchpad
of sorts, things will be left
there between requests, right?
So let's imagine that you use it to
hold temporarily some calculated result,
maybe a count of how many
times a thing has happened.
At subsequent requests,
you might find that, you're not starting
with a 0 you're starting with 10,
because we've already counted up to 10.
So if you have a function that returns
this object, you get a new one each and
every time,
that's an important difference here.
And in this case, we kind of want this to
be on a per request basis, a clean slate.
If we were to store, for example,
information about a user here, but
they're off token, you would want some
guarantee that this will get thrown away,
it won't leak between requests.
All right, so let's paste this in,
resolvers and context.
Resolvers and
context, save.
And let's go back to our GraphQL dev
tools, And let's see what happens.
I'm gonna just run the same query again.
Let me make this a little bit bigger so
we can see it really well.
I wanna run the same query again.
And look at that, no more error,
we're getting that fixed your data,
right, coming through.
Another advantage to GraphQL, I can
combine the retrieval of two different
kinds of things into a single request.
I can get this list of
suggestions as well.
Now in this case,
it's gonna be an empty array.
But this is another advantage
over a REST API design.
You don't need to make n requests for
n resources.
This in fact was a key
reason that GraphQL or
key problem that GraphQL solved for
Facebook,
where this was around the time where they
were rethinking their mobile strategy.
And for their native iOS and Android apps,
the number of requests they were
having to make to assemble everything
on the Facebook page, like messages and
feed items and photos and all of this
stuff, there's so much going on.
And the more they broke things up into
micro services, the more they found
that they were making dozens and dozens of
requests just for that first page load.
So this lets you kind of combine
everything into one big pile,
you get everything that was asked for,
you return it all at once.
And this reduces bottlenecks,
like the number of concurrent
connections that can be made.
Or situations where multiple
round trips are required in
order to assemble something,
makes it real nice and easy.
So great, we have a GraphQL API now.
That was hopefully not too painful.